To make you understand the differentiation
strategy well, what we're going to
do, let's look at a series of examples
of companies that have managed to differentiate
themselves from the rest.
We will also associate it with the
key differentiator factor.
There are a number of common
factors that are usually differentiation,
which often contribute
to differentiation.
For example the brand.
There are companies like Nike,
which have managed to create
a world-renowned brand, what is
called a Love Brand, which
allows customers to pay for
that brand, pay more.
I will give you two things that I love.
One is this brand of gominolas that
is called Omombo, the only thing I
don't like is the name because it's
very hard to pronounce.
And a brand of meat, mainly
hamburgers, which is called
Raza Nostra.
Well, in both cases, the strategy
they have followed seems very bright,
because they compete in very
indifferent markets, such as
the gominolas or the raw material
of a hamburger.
However, in both cases they have
learned to apply a brand and this
has allowed them, because, in
addition to selling much more expensive,
even to integrate forward and
have their own distribution
channel, their own restaurant,
their own stores, etc.
I think it's really brilliant and
it's, as I told you, assigning
or applying a brand to sell a product
that's totally indifferent.
The rest of Raza Nostra's competitors
do not have a brand and the
consumer, therefore, is not willing
to pay that plus for that brand.
Even in restaurants, in some
cases, in the menu you are
told that the hamburgers are
made by them.
So, look at what they have achieved.
Well, another of the, say, of the
leverage to differentiate, one of
the most basic is to have a unique
product, to be able to create a
product of very high quality.
For example, as Tesla has done, which
has known how to differentiate
absolutely in one sector, fix
yourself in a sector with large players,
such as the Mercedes Benz groups,
the German Audi, etc.
And in the same sector we have an
example of how to differentiate
by focusing on one of the
factors, in this case on security,
one of the values.
Volvo has sold millions of cars
throughout its history, relying
on that, positioning itself as
the leading brand, the safest brand.
As you can see, it's not about being
better in everything, it's about
identifying something that makes
you different from others.
And I will analyze our case, the case
of The Power MBA.
Our proposal is an absolutely differentiated
proposal for a number of reasons, but
in this case what I am going to
talk about is to incorporate the
testimonies and cases and the analysis
of success cases of entrepreneurs
who have made very big successes,
for example, such as the
case that you have on the
red reveras screen.
It is something differential, it
is a differential proposal that the rest
of the programs cannot offer.
You can also differentiate yourself
by means, for example, of customer
service, of after-sales service, for
example.
In this case, this was a slogan of
the Corte Inglés, if you are not
satisfied we will return your money.
The Corte Inglés managed to differentiate,
it managed to position itself
thanks to, among other things,
the after-sales service.
Another company that has used a clearly
successful case of how to use
the after-sales service to differentiate
you absolutely from your competitors
and to get better
results is Zappos.
Zappos is an e-commerce shoe that
Amazon bought for 1.6 Billion,
I think.
I would like to give you an example
because it is a really spectacular case.
Well, because the call center,
the customer service of Zappos,
the people who work in the call
center charge you much more than
you charge in the market
in similar positions.
They have much more freedom.
And I put you as an example that is
given in cases that if you do not
find the shoes you are looking
for in Zappos because you do not
have, for example, the detail, help
you find, the call center helps
you find those shoes on competition
websites.
Well, in the end, with such cases, what
they have achieved is that
customer retention is the largest in
the market.
As you can see, it's an example
of differences, in this case, through
a spectacular after-sales
service, right?
Other differentiating factors,
as you can rely on the
customer experience.
The customer experience is better
than the competition.
I will put the case of Cabify, for example.
The Cabify user experience
compared to a traditional
taxi is better.
I think that's the competitive
advantage or differentiation of Cabify.
Starbucks is a company that
grew also mainly for that, for
the customer experience at the
point of sale.
Another factor is convenience.
And I put you, there are convenience
stores, for example, like 7-Eleven,
which differs from the supermarket
or the large traditional
distribution is above all
convenience, proximity and
schedule.
These are competitive advantage
factors that contribute to a competitive
advantage.
There will be customers who prefer
to buy in supermarkets, but what is
clear is that there is a segment
of customers who value this particularity,
this differentiation
that is convenience,
and opt for 7-Eleven.
Another factor that contributes to
the competitive advantage is to have
the best talent.
Garcia Parames is the
most reputable fund
manager in Spain.
And the fact of having Garcia Parames
is clear that it is an absolute
differentiation.
And the manager who has the best,
because obviously is differentiating
from the rest.
And customers will usually
choose it.
You can be very creative, really,
looking for differentiation,
looking for competitive
advantage.
In this case I share on screen Machu,
a collection of Machu, which is
one of the Bintae Group cellars
you already know.
Well, since they are creating
this collection, with a story, with
a very curious storytelling, which
is three bottles, young, middle-
aged, and the old, which are based
on the aging of the wine, which
is really brilliant.
Well, you already have something to tell.
You have a different storytelling
than the rest of millions of
cellars that basically address their
customers and their channels with
a very indifferent proposal.
As I said, I think this is an
example of the huge creativity
in this area.
The possibilities for
differentiation are huge, but you
always have to look for that.
You have to look for a factor or a variable
in which you are better than the others
and that allows you to differentiate
yourself from the rest.